docs/um/access-tech-info/access-configs.md, before:


# ACCESS Model Configurations

## ACCESS-CM2

ACCESS-CM2 configuration: 

- Atmosphere model (UM10.6): N96 resolution (1.875° x 1.25°, 85 levels). Physical model only – no carbon cycle.

- Land surface model (CABLE2.5) 

- Ocean model (MOM5): Tripolar grid, 1° resolution, 50 levels.

- Sea ice model (CICE5.1) 

    | COMPONENT     | MODEL         | VERSION               |
    | ------------- | ------------- | --------------------- |
    | Atmosphere    | UM            | 10.6                  |
    | Land Surface  | CABLE         | 2.5 (integrated in UM)|
    | Ocean         | MOM	        | 5                     |
    | Sea Ice       | CICE          | 5.1                   |
    | Coupler       | OASIS-MCT     | 3                     |

### Experiments

ACCESS-CM2 suites for CMIP6 Scenarios are listed on the [CSIRO's CMIP6 archive](https://confluence.csiro.au/display/ACCESS/CMIP6+Archive+-+ACCESS-CM2). 

Portable ACCESS-CM2 CMIP6 suites available to the ACCESS community include: 


   | EXPERIMENT                     | SUITE         |
   | ------------------------------ | ------------- |
   | Pre-industrial control         | br-565        |
   | Historical                     |               |
   | AMIP                           |               |

(https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/rosie/u/search?s=access+cm2)
-----------------------------

## ACCESS-ESM1.5

ACCESS-ESM1.5 configuration:

- Atmosphere model (UM7.3): N96 resolution (1.875° x 1.25°, 38 levels). 

- Land surface model (CABLE2.4): same horizontal resolution as atmosphere (1.875° x 1.25°).

- Ocean model (MOM5): 1° resolution, 50 levels.

    | COMPONENT     | MODEL         | VERSION               |
    | ------------- | ------------- | --------------------- |
    | Atmosphere    | UM            | 7.3                   |
    | Land Surface  | CABLE         | 2.4 (integrated in UM)|
    | Ocean         | MOM	        | 5                     |
    | Sea Ice       | CICE          | 4.1                   |
    | Coupler       | OASIS-MCT     | 3                     |


### Experiments

ACCESS-ESM1.5 suites for standard CMIP6 scenarios include:

| Experiment   | Control | Link                                         |
| ------------ | --------| -------------------------------------------- |
| PIcontrol    | Payu    | ​https://github.com/coecms/esm-pre-industrial |
| Abrupt4xCO2  |         |                                              |
| 1pctCO2      |         |                                              |
| Historical   | Payu    | ​https://github.com/coecms/esm-historical     |
|AMIP         |         |                               |

 

[Payu](https://payu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a workflow management tool for running climate models in supercomputing environments. 

-----------------------------
### PMIP4	

-----------------------------
## ACCESS Model Specifications
### Vertical Resolution
Comparison of the vertical resolution of 38 and 85 vertical levels used in the ACCESS-ESM1.5 (L38) and ACCESS-CM2 (L85) configurations, respectively. 

![Vertical_levels](cm2-vertical-levels.jpg "Different vertical resolution: L38 versus L85")

Commit message:

added rosie discovery link in access-configs.md

docs/um/access-tech-info/access-configs.md, after:


# ACCESS Model Configurations

## ACCESS-CM2

ACCESS-CM2 configuration: 

- Atmosphere model (UM10.6): N96 resolution (1.875° x 1.25°, 85 levels). Physical model only – no carbon cycle.

- Land surface model (CABLE2.5) 

- Ocean model (MOM5): Tripolar grid, 1° resolution, 50 levels.

- Sea ice model (CICE5.1) 

    | COMPONENT     | MODEL         | VERSION               |
    | ------------- | ------------- | --------------------- |
    | Atmosphere    | UM            | 10.6                  |
    | Land Surface  | CABLE         | 2.5 (integrated in UM)|
    | Ocean         | MOM	        | 5                     |
    | Sea Ice       | CICE          | 5.1                   |
    | Coupler       | OASIS-MCT     | 3                     |

### Experiments

ACCESS-CM2 suites for CMIP6 Scenarios are listed on the [CSIRO's CMIP6 archive](https://confluence.csiro.au/display/ACCESS/CMIP6+Archive+-+ACCESS-CM2). 

Portable ACCESS-CM2 CMIP6 suites available to the ACCESS community include: 


   | EXPERIMENT                     | SUITE         |
   | ------------------------------ | ------------- |
   | Pre-industrial control         | br-565        |
   | Historical                     |               |
   | AMIP                           |               |

Various CM2 suites can be searched using the [Rosie Suites Discovery](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/rosie/u/search?s=access+cm2) tool, although you need to have a MOSR account to access this. 

-----------------------------

## ACCESS-ESM1.5

ACCESS-ESM1.5 configuration:

- Atmosphere model (UM7.3): N96 resolution (1.875° x 1.25°, 38 levels). 

- Land surface model (CABLE2.4): same horizontal resolution as atmosphere (1.875° x 1.25°).

- Ocean model (MOM5): 1° resolution, 50 levels.

    | COMPONENT     | MODEL         | VERSION               |
    | ------------- | ------------- | --------------------- |
    | Atmosphere    | UM            | 7.3                   |
    | Land Surface  | CABLE         | 2.4 (integrated in UM)|
    | Ocean         | MOM	        | 5                     |
    | Sea Ice       | CICE          | 4.1                   |
    | Coupler       | OASIS-MCT     | 3                     |


### Experiments

ACCESS-ESM1.5 suites for standard CMIP6 scenarios include:

| Experiment   | Control | Link                                         |
| ------------ | --------| -------------------------------------------- |
| PIcontrol    | Payu    | ​https://github.com/coecms/esm-pre-industrial |
| Abrupt4xCO2  |         |                                              |
| 1pctCO2      |         |                                              |
| Historical   | Payu    | ​https://github.com/coecms/esm-historical     |
|AMIP         |         |                               |

 

[Payu](https://payu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a workflow management tool for running climate models in supercomputing environments. 

-----------------------------
### PMIP4	

-----------------------------
## ACCESS Model Specifications
### Vertical Resolution
Comparison of the vertical resolution of 38 and 85 vertical levels used in the ACCESS-ESM1.5 (L38) and ACCESS-CM2 (L85) configurations, respectively. 

![Vertical_levels](cm2-vertical-levels.jpg "Different vertical resolution: L38 versus L85")
