docs/access_cm2/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started with ACCESS-CM

This section outlines some key user requirements before getting started with running ACCESS-CM suites.

## Requirements for running ACCESS suites 

- An institutional email address with an organisation that allows access to NCI, e.g. CSIRO, a university, etc.
- Access to NCI compute/storage.
- A computer with an internet connection and a command line terminal with a Linux/Mac/Unix computer (e.g., MacOS with XQuartz and command line tools installed) or Putty Cygwin or similar X-Windows compatible program on a PC. 

### Basic Setup 
To run an ACCESS suite, all new users will need to:

- [Create an NCI account](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+create+an+NCI+user+account) through the NCI online self-service portal.
- [Join the ACCESS group](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/access/join). You can also find instructions on how to [join a particular project](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+connect+to+a+project) through the NCI self-service portal. 
- [Connect to accessdev](https://accessdev.nci.org.au/trac/wiki/GettingConnected) once you have your NCI credentials and have been granted membership of the ACCESS group to complete your setup. At present, both accessdev and ARE environment run the models on Gadi. ARE, however, only supports shorter-running suites (i.e., runs less than 48 hours). Work is currently in progress to fully transition the cylc workflows from accessdev virtual machine to the ARE.
- Additional steps relating to [communication between accessdev and Gadi](https://accessdev.nci.org.au/trac/wiki/gadi) may also be necessary.

Commit message:

CM2: MOSRS account and MetOffice environment on NCI Fixes #4

docs/access_cm2/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started with ACCESS-CM
This section outlines some key user requirements before getting started with running ACCESS-CM suites.

## Requirements for running ACCESS suites 

- An institutional email address with an organisation that allows access to NCI (e.g., CSIRO, a university, etc.).
- Access to NCI compute/storage.
- A computer with an internet connection and a command line terminal with a Linux/Mac/Unix computer (e.g., MacOS with XQuartz and command line tools installed) or Putty Cygwin or similar X-Windows compatible program on a PC. 

### Basic Setup 
To run an ACCESS suite, all new users will need to:

- [Create an NCI account](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+create+an+NCI+user+account) through the NCI online self-service portal.
- [Join the ACCESS group](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/access/join). You can also find instructions on how to [join a particular project](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+connect+to+a+project) through the NCI self-service portal. 
- [Connect to accessdev](https://accessdev.nci.org.au/trac/wiki/GettingConnected) to complete your setup (once you have your NCI credentials and are a member of the ACCESS group). 
*Note:* At present, both accessdev and [ARE](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/ARE+User+Guide) run the models on Gadi. However, ARE only supports shorter-running suites (i.e., runs less than 48 hours). Work is currently in progress to fully transition the cylc workflows from accessdev virtual machine to the ARE.
- Additional steps relating to the [communication between accessdev and Gadi](https://accessdev.nci.org.au/trac/wiki/gadi) may also be necessary. 

### UK Met Office Environment on NCI
As components within the ACCESS-CM suites use the UK Met Office model code, the [UK Met Office Environment](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/DAE/UK+Met+Office+Environment+on+NCI) is installed on NCI. This comprises the model software and tools as well as the cylc workflow system, rose suites, the Met Office MOSRS repository and our local replica repository. In order to checkout and run ACCESS-CM2 suites on Gadi using Rose/Cylc, you need to have access to a number of repositories at the Met Office as well as the local replica and local software on NCI, which will require fullfilling these [prerequisites](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/DAE/UK+Met+Office+environment+prerequisites).

### Met Office Science Repository Service (MOSRS)
[Met Office Science Repository Service (MOSRS)](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk) is a Trac server run by the UK Met Office for sharing code and configurations for the climate models it runs with partners. It contains the source code and configurations for the UM and JULES amongst other things.

To apply for a MOSRS account, users should contact their [local institutional sponsor](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/DAE/UK+Met+Office+environment+prerequisites).
