docs/access_cm2/index.md, before:

# ACCESS-CM2

## ACCESS-CM2 configuration: 

- Atmosphere model (UM10.6): N96 resolution (1.875° x 1.25°, 85 levels). Physical model only – no carbon cycle.

- Land surface model (CABLE2.5) 

- Ocean model (MOM5): Tripolar grid, 1° resolution, 50 levels.

- Sea ice model (CICE5.1) 

    | COMPONENT     | MODEL         | VERSION               |
    | ------------- | ------------- | --------------------- |
    | Atmosphere    | UM            | 10.6                  |
    | Land Surface  | CABLE         | 2.5 (integrated in UM)|
    | Ocean         | MOM	        | 5                     |
    | Sea Ice       | CICE          | 5.1                   |
    | Coupler       | OASIS-MCT     | 3                     |

## Experiments

ACCESS-CM2 suites for CMIP6 Scenarios are listed on the [CSIRO's CMIP6 archive](https://confluence.csiro.au/display/ACCESS/CMIP6+Archive+-+ACCESS-CM2). 

Portable ACCESS-CM2 CMIP6 suites available to the ACCESS community include: 


   | EXPERIMENT                     | SUITE         |
   | ------------------------------ | ------------- |
   | Pre-industrial control         | br-565        |
   | Historical                     |               |
   | AMIP                           |               |

Various CM2 suites can be searched using the [Rosie Suites Discovery](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk/rosie/u/search?s=access+cm2) tool, although you need to have a MOSR account to access this.

Commit message:

First part of draft of Rose/Cylc/Rosie with CM2

docs/access_cm2/index.md, after:

# **<span style="color:orange">ACCESS-CM2</span>**
![ACCESS-CM2 Diagram](assets/access_cm2_components_diagram.png){align=right width=50%}

<i>(Why there is no aerosol component in the diagram on the right taken from ACESS-NRI website?)</i>

<div style="text-align: justify">
ACCESS-CM2 (ACCESS Coupled Model 2) is a global fully-coupled climate model that includes the atmosphere, ocean and sea-ice components, and produces physical climate simulations. ACCESS-CM2 is one of the two models run by the Australian climate community for the 
<a href = "https://www.wcrp-climate.org/wgcm-cmip" target="_blank"> Coupled Model Intercomparison Project, CMIP</a>.
<br>
</div>

## ACCESS-CM2 configurations

- Atmosphere model (UM10.6): N96 resolution (1.875° x 1.25°, 85 levels). Physical model only – no carbon cycle.

- Land surface model (CABLE2.5) 

- Ocean model (MOM5): Tripolar grid, 1° resolution, 50 levels.

- Sea ice model (CICE5.1) 

    | COMPONENT     | MODEL         | VERSION               |
    | ------------- | ------------- | --------------------- |
    | Atmosphere    | UM            | 10.6                  |
    | Land Surface  | CABLE         | 2.5 (integrated in UM)|
    | Ocean         | MOM	        | 5                     |
    | Sea Ice       | CICE          | 5.1                   |
    | Coupler       | OASIS-MCT     | 3                     |
## Getting started with ACCESS-CM2
*(Heidi)*

## Rose/Cylc
